This painting is monochromatic- consisting of blacks, whites, and greys.
Despite having a lack of variation in color, the blacks and whites
portray many different textures, shades, and materials. Overall, the
painting is precise and real. It almost resembles a photograph. Details
such as stray hairs, reflection in the glasses, freckles, eyelashes etc.
contribute to the painting’s sense of reality. Frank looks stoic and
composed, yet he also looks pensive. As I look into his almost black
eyes, I can images he has a story to tell.
-Lisa Shmulyan describing “Frank” by Chuck Close, no date

Pretty young man (dark curly hair)– dark features – rosy lips & cheeks
standing outside stable paddock near trellising ivy stucco wall.
Reflective gaze Blousey shirt & breeches dull green
-Connie Brewer describing “Savoyard Boy” by Eastman Johnson, no date

This work is hauntingly emotional. The face of complete & utter
despair. It is primarily browns & blacks & tans & white: This palette
highlights the fact that Lucretia’s Night gown is blood stained from
her suicidal stabbing. You can fairly see the life’s blood draining
from her in her final moments. It is extremely powerful emotionally
-Sandra describing “Lucretia” by Rembrandt, 1/17/13

The hands of a baby, the blue, shiny garb of a well-dressed woman, the
face of a dude complete with a bonnet on his frighteningly
transgendered head. 10/10 would bang.
-Ethan Lauer describing “Portrait of Sarah Allen née Sargent” by John Singleton Copely, 1/17/13

3’ x 5’ This painting has burnt umber over 50% of the painting. It has
a blue sky in the top left corner in the shape of a rough edged
rectangle. the bottom edges are trimmed with white fluffy clouds The
burnt umber starts in the top of the right corner and sweeps down to
the base of the picture. Half way down on left in a arched opening on
the right appears like the inside of a skull. The bottom third of the
painting has bright fleshy humans; named they are. There is a pole in
the middle with a light fixture hanging (candle power). Serious monks
that do not look happy
-Bill O’Neill describing “Monks Praying in a Grotto”  by Alessandro Magnasco, 1/17/13

A brownish, yellowish haystack, grass that is yellow, green, and brown
and there is a yellow sun. The sky is yellow, tan, with pink along the
background. It has dabs of paint. I see a little grey in the
background. The haystack is in the middle of the picture. I don’t see
anything else in the picture. The colors are like sunset.
-Krin Blegen (age 5) describing “Grainstack, Sun in the Mist” by Claude Monet, 3/16/13

There is no more beautiful display of pastles on earth. I want to feast
my eyes on it every day. From far away it appears rather dull, but if
you get close you will not be able to take you eyes off of it. Orange
blue pink yellow seems to be one color. Love, love, love it.
-Connie Karls describing “Grainstack, Sun in the Mist” by Claude Monet, 3/13/13

This rectangle painting is horizontally place with only 7 objects on a
white background. Just under the center line all the way to the left is
half of a slanted box (slanted the top to the right) about an inch to
the right is an identical, full sized box. Above the half box is ¼ box
filled in black. On the right of the work is a full black box, on the
same visual line as the other black filled box. Under is a circle and a
slanted outlined box, on the same line as the first described box. Just
to the left of the center line is an oval which drips from the top of
the work by a thin black outline. The piece is framed with a thin
silver frame and black lattice.
-Katie Van Zante describing “Linear Still Life” by William Scot, 1/17/13

In a large oil painting, two women are portrayed. The artist used muted
reds and browns. The first woman is in the foreground, sitting &
leaning to the left of the frame, with her head resting in the crook of
her fist and thumb. She is looking sort of sadly at something to the
right. The woman directly behind her is also looking at the mysterious
thing to the right. The second woman appears directly to the left of
the first. The whole painting is sort of obscured, like you’re looking
at them through a dusty window. It’s contemplative & sort of sad.
-Beth Ireland describing “Two Women” by Eugene Carrière, 1/17/13

Young accountant-looking man in chino-type pants + oxford shirt. Rust +
orange + brown/ red w/ gold hints is color scheme. He is sitting on a
small sofa type chair, hands up @ shoulder level His eyes look a bit
dazed + wild. The texture of the brush strokes is a little frenetic
energy. His body + clothes are all outlined in black adding a crisp
pronounced young energy. His ocean blue tie matches the chaotic energy
that seems to border on the edges of passion, frustration, youthful
vigor, and anger.
- Cheryl Dornfeld describing “Portrait of Paris von Gütersloh” by Egon Schiele, 1/17/13

White frame, painting, small enough to fit in a large purse Left lower
quadrant: red rectangle olive colored wall w/ open doorway in the
middle, door is slightly (maybe ¾ of the way) open Lower right: essence
of a chair An abstraction of a “woman” wearing a gray dress/ house coat
Woman is holding door open, neck crooked to see who’s there. Room
behind the open door is bright green – background behind woman No
details- color blocking.
-Annie Dressen describing “The Artist’s Mother Opening a Door”  by Jean Edouard Vuillard, 2/21/13

The painting is about two feet by two and a half feet. This oild
painting is impressionistically rendered. The brush strokes appear
loose and fast. The work is set in a room that features walls which are
painted a deep red. It is night, as indicated by two twin windows seen
in the left part of the painting. The central figure is a fair-skinned
and corpulent mother clad in a fine red dress. She is seated at a white
clothed dining table that is filled with glassware. The dining table is
off-center and continues outside the picture plane on the right. The
mother is cutting a cake for her androgynous child who is seated on her
left (appearing in the right corner of the composition). The child’s
face is lit up by birthday candles on the cake. The child stares
intently into the flames of the candles. Directly behind the mother
stands a ominous man who is wearing all black. Perhaps he is the
father. He is dark skinned, bald, and has a beard and moustache. He
lacks all facial features. Light seems to be emanating from behind him,
perhaps he is blocking a wall sconce. There is a lamp in the upper
right hand corner, which is cut off by picture plane. It is quite large
in scale to the figures, which makes it seem close to the viewer. The
Lamp features an Asian inspired lampshade that portrays a carp on side,
and a bamboo tree on another. The overwhelming use of red, the off
centered elements of the composition, and the mysterious male figure
leaves the viewer with an uneasy feeling. This is not the most joyous
of birthday parties.
-Michael Beech describing “The Birthday Party” by John Singer Sargent, 1/30/13

A life-sized human form- a sculpture- is completely covered in
patchwork crocheted pieces. All colors present, the pieces sizes of
doilies or square oven mitts, lacey in detail and full of flower
patterns. Only the hands and heels of the black plastic-mold human form
are visible under the crocheted work, which fits like a claustrophobia
- inducing, homemade grandmotherly sock. Starting at mid-torso on the
body, metal poles (1/4 in diameter) poke out from the body. At the end
of the curving poles are 40 or so colorful, antique toys-
jack-in-the-boxes, bells, drums – all small scary garish children’s
instruments. it feels like a circus and a grandma’s living room.
-Alyssa Lund describing “Soundsuit” by Nick Cave, 1/17/13

Big turquoise squiggle in foreground. Flanked by gaudy splotches of
fuscia. Central image: phallic towers tower over little house shapes
with candy-colored window squares. Background: skinny green triangles
recede to gauzy lavender swirls.
-Charisse Gendron describing “Guardian Castle” by Thomas Kinkade, 3/21/13

Glowing view thru door + window as if out onto the yard + porch or
entry. Amazing yummy glow-y colors – red + yellows, greens, set off by
paler softer colors. Enticing. As if wonderful people + food are about
to gather + chat. And have wine + (real) lemonade. K good luck
-Kristin Draba describing “Dining Room in the Country” by Pierre Bonnard, 2/24/13

The coral cutlery set consists of a single knife and fork. They are
made delicately out of gold and silver, with a great deal of fancy 16th
century decoration and embellishments. However, all this decoration is
outshone- to the point of looking insignificant – by the luminous red
branch of coral crowning each utensil. The coral is in its natural
form- like miniature red trees- but polished until they shine with
white highlights. The care and expense that went into making them is
obvious, they are treasures. Yet despite everything, they still manage
to seem like an everyday object, recognizable and familiar despite
being old and extremely ornate.
-Gemma Zahradka describing “Coral Cutlery Set” by artist unknown, 3/21/13

Oil on canvas. This painting is about 3’tall x 5’wide. A black frame
with intricate ridges. In the background on the far side of the pond
sits a little cottage with a watermill. The roof is orange and the wall
behind the wheel is white. A reflection of the mill glimmers on the
pond. White and grey clouds pile up in the blue sky above the mill. On
either side of the mill stand green trees a little taller than the
mill, also casting their reflection in the pond. In the foreground a
hunter in a red coat bears a rifle. He is aiming his rigle across the
pond in the direction of the wood on the left of the mill. To the right
of the hunter the trees tower to the top of the frame and to the right
edge of the frame. A wooden rail fence borders the bottom edge of the
painting. The canopies of the trees stretch as wide as the trees are
tall. The tree trunks in the foreground are white from the forest floor
to midway below the first branches. The reflection of the canopies
reaches from the foremost tree, to the fence. The hunter stands on the
shore in the middle of the reflection of the canopy of the foremost
tree on his right.
-Penny Arcos describing “Wooded Landscape with Watermill” by Meindert Hobbema, 3/10/13

High heeled shoes: Vivid colors of blue like the sky, red like fire,
black + white like a checkerboard. Made of glistening, tiny little,
blue gold, +white beads, red feathers, tan leather, and gold sequins on
a 6” high heeled shoes with 3”platform und the toes. Very sparkly. The
feel like fun.
-Anonymous describing “Adaptation II” by Jamie Okum,  designed by Christian Louboutin, 2/24/13

One of my favorite painting is a horizontal image of a bunch of people-
like 12, they take up most of the bottom half of the images. Like
looking at a snapshot at the state fair. But these people are wearing
masks. My memory of this work is fuzzy. The people look cartoony with
outlines. The work is painterly and brushy. Done in oils. The masks are
animal masks of just weird faces. But you can tell the face is a mask,
cuz it looks like an oval put over where the real face would be. I
think there are clouds floating in the sky above them. a couple blobby
clouds. The people look circusy-y. One of them has a big clown nose for
sure. They are wearing suits like Europeans in 1940 would. One of the
people might be smoking or holding a smoke.
-Kelly Newcomer describing unknown by unknown, 3/19/13
